1.	对立观点型
范文1:
Should the University Campus Be Open to Tourists?
1．名校校园正成为旅游新热点
2. 校园是否应对游客开放，人们看法不同
3．我认为……　　
   ①Currently/Nowadays/in recent years, famous(leading) colleges are appealing to an increasing number of tourists. ②One can always find visitors taking pictures and enjoying the scenery on campuses. ③Therefore, there is widespread/growing concern over whether the university campus should be open to tourists.
   ④Some people are in favor of the idea that the university campus should be open to tourists. ⑤Some hold that this can attract many tourists, thus boosting tourism industry. ⑥Others maintain that with more tourists coming to visit universities, these universities can, to a certain extent, make themselves known to more people. ⑦Still others believe that the atmosphere of famous universities can motivate visitors, especially teenage tourists，to seek more knowledge. ⑧However/Nevertheless, others hold an opposite (different/negative) point of view. ⑨ The reasons can be listed as follows. ⑩For one thing, with tourists pouring into campuses, the beauty of the campus will be ruined. ⑾For another, this will inevitably distract college students from their study.
⑿From my perspective, I share the opinion of the former. ⒀The primary reason is that it is necessary for students to know the outside world. ⒁ Only by opening the campus can students get a rare chance to have a contact with various people outside the campus, which is of benefit to students.

范文2:
                 Social Practice for College Students
1.	学校要求学生进行社会实践     
2.	社会实践的利弊      
3.	你对社会实践的看法
   如今，越来越多的大学要求学生进行社会实践。有的学生选择去做志愿者，有的做兼职，或进行社会问题研究等。说到它是否对学生有好处，人们观点不一。(社会实践受到学生的极大欢迎)
   社会实践对学生很有好处。首先，学生有了接触社会以及形形色色的人的机会。只有通过这种方法学生才能获得宝贵的社会经验。这有助于为他们将来进入社会做好准备。其次，社会实践是学生获得知识的更有效途径。它让学生意识到书本知识是不够的。再者，踏入社会，学生将独自面对困难和解决问题。毫不夸张地说社会实践加速大学生的成熟，同时也增强了他们的社会责任感。但是有些人并不这么认为。有些人担心除非学生有自律，否则他们可能荒废学业。也有些人担心如果没有正确的引导，一些学生可能接触到社会的阴暗面，这将对他们未来的学习有不良的影响。       
   就我而言，我赞成后者。主要原因是学生应把重心放在学习上，把社会实践只是作为补充。他们应该设法在学习与社会实践之间找到个平衡点。
    Nowadays, it is not a rare phenomenon that colleges, in growing numbers, are asking their students to engage in various (a variety of) social practices. You may find students working as volunteers，taking part-time jobs, doing / conducting research on social problems, and the like, especially during the holidays. There are vastly different ideas about this phenomenon. (When it comes to whether it is of benefit to students, various views emerge./ Social practice has gained great popularity among a great majority of students./ Social practice is appealing to an increasing number of students. )
    Some people take it for granted that social practice is undoubtedly of benefit to students. To begin with, it is most likely that social practice can provide students with a rare chance to have a contact with the society and various people outside the campus. （Only in this way can students gain some valuable social experience, which will be useful for them to get ready for the society. ）Besides, social practice, to a certain extent, is a more effective way for students to acquire knowledge, making students realize book knowledge is far from enough. （What’s more, when stepping into the competitive society, students will inevitably learn to face difficulties and solve problems by themselves. There is no exaggeration in saying that social practice accelerates maturity of college students and fosters/strengthens a sense of social responsibility. ）However, some think otherwise/some don’t share this point of view. Some are fearful that unless students have self-discipline, they tend to neglect their study.  Others may fear/worry that if they don’t have correct guidance , chances are that some students may get in touch with the dark side of society, which will , directly or indirectly, affect / have a harmful effect on their future studies. 
   From my perspective, I share the opinion of the latter. （The reasons are as follows.）The primary reason is that students should give priority to study and see social practice just as a useful supplement（补充）. Therefore,  they ought to try to strike a balance between social practice and their studies. 

范文3:
                        On Online Chatting
1.	网上聊天越来越流行
2.	有人反对它，有人赞同
3.	我的看法
Nowadays, online chatting is appealing to an increasing number of people. You may find people, especially youngsters, busy chatting with friends, strangers, colleagues and the like online.
Some people are in favor of online chatting, believing that it is undoubtedly another way of recreation(娱乐活动，消遣) which is both exciting and relaxing. Besides, it, to a certain extent, helps them release their emotions and worries freely and safely. (it seems/turns out to be an extremely useful and wonderful way to relieve them of their burdens coming from this competitive society.) 
Nevertheless, others think otherwise. They are fearful that it is a waste of time, energy and money as it can hardly bring any useful information. Others fear/worry that it is misleading(让人误解的, 引入歧途的) to its users because cyberspace(网络世界) is actually an imaginary(想象的，虚构的) space where things are unreal or fictional(虚构的).
As far as I am concerned, whether online chatting is good or bad depends on the person who does it. Only when we can keep ourselves under good control can we use it effectively and properly without bad effects.  （152） 


范文4：
       Social Practice for College Students-5
1.	学校要求学生进行社会实践 
2.	 社会实践的利弊 
3.	 你对社会实践的看法
Nowadays, college students are required to take part in some social practice, such as being an assistant in companies, or doing surveys, especially during the holidays.  Social practice is gradually becoming more essential for China’s higher education. 
However, social practice has both advantages and disadvantages for college students. On the one hand, it provides students with more opportunities to contact with the real world off-campus. Besides, it helps students to grasp some practical skills, especially communication skills, which is an essential supplement(补充) to on-campus study. Moreover, social practice can widen students’ vision / broaden one's horizon. On the other hand, the negative effects can not be neglected: students’ major task is learning (改用acquiring) knowledge, while curiosity about off-campus world may distract them; sometimes social practice is even treated unseriously (改为 social practice is not even taken seriously不认真对待) and becomes a waste of time. Furthermore, the students may be faced with dangers unexpectedly. 
Despite the potential negative effects of social practice, I strongly support social practice for college students, since as a whole, the benefits overwhelm the likely harm. Two heads are better than one（人多智广，两个臭皮匠，胜过一个诸葛亮）. If students, schools, and the society join hands together, social practice can be carried out more effectively and better armed students for the society can be expected. 

2. 利弊及解决方法型：

                     Cherish Every Minute on Campus---15
1. 大学生浪费时间的现象十分严重
2. 这种现象产生的后果
3. 你认为应该怎样解决这样问题
     In recent years, the problem of college students’ wasting time has become increasingly serious on university campuses and more and more people voice growing concern over it. 
     Such a phenomenon has brought many unfavorable consequences. To begin with, parents are the direct victims, because children’s wasting time on campus means that parents’ wishes may never be fulfilled in the future. What’s more, it is extremely harmful to students themselves in that they may lose the best opportunity to lay a solid foundation for tomorrow’s career.  Last but not least, an unhealthy atmosphere will come into being in universities as wasting time becomes more and more common, which, obviously, goes against the aim of university education directly.  
     It is more than necessary that all of us joined in the efforts to fight against this notorious （臭名昭着的） phenomenon. As to me, I am determined to make an all-around plan and strictly carry it out in order to live a happy and fruitful (富有成效的,)life on campus.  Moreover, I will try to consult teachers and peers so as to be more reasonable(明事理的) and enterprising( 有进取心的，有事业心的). Only when every one of us realizes the importance of time can we put an end to the adverse（不利的，有害的） trend. 
3. 解释说明型作文 / 说明利弊型作文
        On Students Choosing Lecturers
1.有些大学允许学生自由选择某些课程的任课教师
2.学生选择教师时所考虑的主要因素
3.学生自选任课教师的益处和可能产生的问题
Nowadays, some colleges allow students to choose lecturers themselves. Students find themselves benefiting a lot from it. This, to some extent, offers students a more flexible and more efficient way of learning. 
     When choosing teachers, students tend to take following factors into consideration/account. To begin with, a great majority of students give priority to teachers’ personalities, such as a good sense of humor, being easy to communicate with and full of responsibility. Besides, the lecturer’s academic background really matters. Having profound knowledge, a lecturer may arouse students’ interest in specific field. What’s more, whether the lecturer has an excellent reputation among students is likely to exert an influence on the decision, because the reputation , directly or indirectly, reflects the teacher’s ability.
     There is no doubt that it has both favorable and unfavorable aspects. On one hand, it is of great benefit to both students and teachers. It not only motivates students to take an active part in classes but also puts more pressure on lecturers to improve their teaching quality. On the other hand, it has given rise to some problems. For example, some top lecturers might be ignored if they are not able to meet students’ taste. In general, this practice should be carried out with care.

4. 道理论证型作文
It Pays to Be Honest
１）当前社会上存在许多不诚实的现象；
２）诚实利人利己，做人应该诚实。
It is not surprising that honesty, as a virtue of mankind, has been challenged in the modern society as we encounter more and more dishonest people and things. For example, some businessmen sell fake products to their consumers;  some students cheat on exams; some applicants find jobs by using fake diplomas; some people tell lies to avoid responsibility or avoid being punished.
I hold to the belief that it pays to be honest. The reasons can be listed as follows. To begin with, honesty is essentially important in establishing trust among people. Besides, to be honest brings benefits to people around you. For example, your classmates may find it easy to communicate with you. What’s more, you yourself will benefit from being honest. You will be blessed with使有幸得到，a stable marriage, many friends and more importantly, a peaceful heart. 
It goes without saying that your life will be meaningful as you will be appreciated and remembered as an honest person. In conclusion, it is definitely rewarding to be honest because you will get more than you pay.                              

5. 阐述主题型作文
P66   Is Failure a Bad Thing?
   ---What really counts/matters is not how much you read, but what you read.
P70   Where There Is a Will, There Is a Way
